# 2. Remote git server

In previous tuto, we have learned how to version a project, but all this happens on your local machine, if your pc died,
you will lose everything. The better idea is to upload your code to a **remote server/repository**.

A remote git repository is nothing but a space in a remote computer which allow us to manage our project. A benefit 
of having a remote git repo are followings:

- multiple developers can work remotely on same repo
- you can push your local file changes to server

## 2.1 Create a git remote

You can go to github.com, then create a new project. Then you will get a url of your remote git repository. 
For example
```text
# for ssh remote, you need to setup your ssh key in your github account
git@github.com:pengfei99/hello-github.git

# https
https://github.com/pengfei99/hello-github.git
```

## 2.2 Add remote to your local repo

You can use below command to add a remote repo. Note **origin** is the name of the remote repo, it can be any name that
you want. By convention, we call it origin.

```shell
# add remote repo
git remote add origin git@github.com:pengfei99/hello-github.git

# check remote repo list
git remote -v
```

## 2.3 Push your local repo to remote repo

Below command will push your local repo to the remote repo that you added above
```shell
git push -u origin master
```

As the remote repo is empty, the first push, we need to add **-u**. **origin** indicates which is the remote repo, 
**master** indicates which is the branch on remote repo that will be updated with your local branch.

Note after first push, you can just do

```shell
# the default value for remote is origin, and default branch is master
git push
```

## 2.4 Fetch remote changes to your local repo

If someone made some changes, and you want to get those changes. You can you below command

```shell
# download the change from remote repo to local repo
git fetch origin master

```

But you noticed that nothing changed in your local working directory. That's because you only download it, you need to
merge the changes to your working directory

Below command will merge the changes
```shell
git merge origin master
```

To save some time, you can just call 

```shell
# this will download the change and merge them
git pull origin master
```

## 2.5 Delete a remote repo

If you want to delete a remote repo, you can use below command

```shell
git remote rm origin
```

## 2.6 multi remote repo

You can have multi remote repo by using below command. You only need to make sure the name of the remote repo is unique.

```shell
git remote add <name> <url>
```

## 2.7 Clone a remote repo

Suppose you lost your pc, you want to download your project on a new pc and start new. You can use below command to 
clone the remote repo

```shell
git clone git@github.com:pengfei99/hello-github.git
```

