# 03. git branch

The below diagram visualizes a repository with two isolated lines of development, one for a little feature, and 
one for a longer-running feature. By developing them in branches, it’s **not only possible to work on both of them 
in parallel**, but it also **keeps the main branch free from questionable code**.


A branch represents an independent line of development. **Branches serve as an abstraction for the edit/stage/commit 
process**. You can think of them as a way to request a brand-new working directory, staging area, and project history. 
New commits are recorded in the history for the current branch, which results in a fork in the history of the project.

The git branch command lets you create, list, rename, and delete branches. It doesn’t let you switch between branches 
or put a forked history back together again. For this reason, git branch is tightly integrated with 
**the git checkout and git merge commands**.

# 3.1 Check existing branch

```shell
git branch
```

# 3.2 Create a new branch
To create a branch, you can use below command.
```shell
git branch <branch_name>
```

For example

```shell
git branch dev

# switch to dev branch
git checkout dev 
# similar to above command
git switch dev
```

Or you can use 

```shell
# this will create the branch and switch to it automatically
git checkout -b <new_branch>

# this will create the branch and switch to it automatically just like above command
git switch -c <new_branch>
```

For example, we can use below command to create a new branch and switch to it

```shell
git switch -c feature/branch_management

# output
# Switched to a new branch 'feature/branch_management'

```

## 3.3 Merge branch

We can merge branch if we want to add the code of one branch to another

You can use below command:
```shell
git merge <name>

```

For example, go to branch dev, add a file and merge it.

```shell
git checkout dev

```

create a file test/dev.txt. add some text in it. Now merge branch to main branch
Now you are in dev branch, try to run below command
```shell
git merge main
```
The output is **Already up to date.** And nothing happens.

Let's try another way 

```shell
git checkout main
git merge dev
```

This time, the output is like below, and you can notice the file dev.txt is created in your working directory of branch 
main

```shell
Updating 284dfd2..91ca029
Fast-forward
 test/dev.txt | 1 +
 1 file changed, 1 insertion(+)
 create mode 100644 test/dev.txt

```

This happens because git merge only merge the give branch to current branch, if current branch is ahead of the given
branch, it means there is nothing new in the given branch that the current branch does not have. so it does nothing.

If the given branch is ahead of the current branch, git will bring all new changes to current branch.

## 3.4 Switching branch

Note, when you switch branch, you may see below message

```text
git checkout feature/branch_management 
error: Your local changes to the following files would be overwritten by checkout:
        docs/03.branch.md
Please commit your changes or stash them before you switch branches.
Aborting

```

Git protects your work
删除分支：git branch -d <name>